I have been dealing with an issue with commiting my sub module main.py. I close the text editor as prompted during the process and then prompted with the word insert and not ability to scroll down to use terminal. What is going on?
It sounds like you might be using Vim as your text editor when committing changes. Here are a few steps to help you navigate through this issue:

Are you using Vim as your text editor? Vim typically shows the word "insert" when you are in insert mode.
Which terminal or command line interface are you using?
If you are using Vim:

To exit insert mode, press Esc.
To save your commit message and close Vim, type :wq and press Enter.
Please let me know if you are using Vim or another text editor, and which terminal you are using, so I can provide more specific instructions.

I am using Phoenix Code as my text editor
Thank you for the information. Since you are using Phoenix Code, it sounds like the issue might be related to the text editor's mode or terminal integration. Here are some steps you can follow:

Ensure you are not in insert mode. If you see "insert" at the bottom, press Esc to exit insert mode.
Save your changes and exit the editor. The typical command for this is :wq (write and quit) in Vim-like editors.
If the issue persists, please provide more details about the exact steps you are taking and any error messages you encounter. This will help in diagnosing the problem further.

so what happens is that I go to my repository and use the git status command. It pops up with a file in a sub directory that needs to be commit then I go to the sub directory using the cd command, use the git add command to add it, then use git commit -m with an appropreate message, then I use git push and it returns a message with writting total objects 4/4 done, then displays total 4 (delta 2), reused 0 (delta 0), pack reused 0. However I am then prompted in the git hub app to use the add command to add the file
It seems like you've successfully committed and pushed the changes, but GitHub still prompts you to add the file. Here are a few things to check:

Ensure the correct branch is being used. Run git branch to see the current branch and confirm it matches the branch you're pushing to on GitHub.
Verify if the changes are reflected on GitHub. Check the repository on GitHub to see if the commit is visible.
If the issue persists, try running git status again to ensure there are no lingering changes that need to be committed.
Please let me know if you still face issues after these checks.

I have used git status and it returns origin master and git branch returns *master and I still am having the commit appear in the GitHub app
It looks like your repository's default branch is set to main, but your local branch is master. You should switch to the main branch and try committing and pushing again:

Switch to the main branch:

Code
git checkout main
Pull the latest changes:

Code
git pull origin main
Add, commit, and push your changes:

Code
git add path/to/your/file
git commit -m "Your commit message"
git push origin main
Let me know if this resolves the issue.

when running pull origin it returned the error, fatal: remote ref main
It seems there might be a mismatch between your local branch and the remote branch. Let's try the following steps:

Check the branches available on the remote:

Code
git branch -r
If the main branch does not exist, you may need to create it:

Code
git checkout -b main
git push -u origin main
If the main branch exists, switch to it and pull the latest changes:

Code
git checkout main
git pull origin main
Please try these steps and let me know if you encounter any issues.

git branch r returned an error: origin/HEAD -> origin/master origin/master. The first origin/Head and last origin/master were in red text
It seems like there might be some configuration issues with your branches. Let's try setting the upstream branch correctly:

Create the main branch from master:

Code
git checkout -b main master
Push the new main branch to the remote repository:

Code
git push -u origin main
Set main as the default branch on GitHub through the repository settings.

After this, you should be able to commit and push changes to the main branch without issues.

I have executed these commands and I am still recieving the add error in the app
It appears that your recent commits have been successfully pushed to the repository. You can view the commits here.

However, there might still be an issue in the GitHub app. Could you please provide the exact wording of the "add" error message you are seeing in the GitHub app? This will help in diagnosing the problem further.

git add app/main.py
appologies I specified what command I had entered. Here is the error that the app displays: On branch main
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/main'.

Untracked files:
  (use "git add <file>..." to include in what will be committed)
	codecrafters-grep-python/

nothing added to commit but untracked files present (use "git add" to track)
It looks like you have untracked files in the codecrafters-grep-python/ directory. You need to add these files to the staging area before committing.

Run the following commands:

Add the untracked files:

Code
git add codecrafters-grep-python/
Commit the changes:

Code
git commit -m "Add codecrafters-grep-python"
Push the changes:

Code
git push origin main
This should resolve the issue and include the untracked files in your commit.

 I am being met to log in to git hub though the terminal but login support was removed in august
GitHub removed password authentication for Git operations. To authenticate, you need to use a Personal Access Token (PAT). You can create a PAT and use it as follows:

Go to GitHub Settings > Developer settings > Personal access tokens.
Click on "Generate new token", give it a name, set the expiration, and select the scopes you need (e.g., repo).
Generate the token and copy it.
To authenticate using the token:

Run:
Code
git remote set-url origin https://<your-username>:<your-token>@github.com/zbeers/special-barnacle.git
Replace <your-username> with your GitHub username and <your-token> with the generated PAT. This will update the remote URL to use token-based authentication.

thank you for your help! It appears I have fixed the issue
You're welcome! I'm glad to hear the issue is resolved. If you have any other questions or need further assistance, feel free to ask.

Hey, I'm now getting this problem to happen any time I save my file within phoenix code. Should I just switch text editors or is there a simpler solution
Could you provide more details about the specific problem you encounter when saving your file in Phoenix code? Any error messages or specific behavior will help in diagnosing the issue.

sure each time I save my main.py file within my special-barnacle repository I am met with this error message: On branch main
Your branch is up to date with 'origin/main'.

Changes not staged for commit:
  (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
  (use "git restore <file>..." to discard changes in working directory)
  (commit or discard the untracked or modified content in submodules)
	modified:   codecrafters-shell-python (modified content)

no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
It seems I couldn't fetch the changes or the file itself. Let's try the following steps to resolve the issue:

Check for uncommitted changes in the submodule:

sh
cd codecrafters-shell-python
git status
Stage the modified content in the submodule:

sh
git add .
git commit -m "Staging changes in submodule"
Update the main repository:

sh
cd ..
git add codecrafters-shell-python
git commit -m "Update submodule"
git push
These steps should help manage the changes in the submodule and update the main repository accordingly.

could you save this conversation in a text document for me to reference when and if I encounter this error again?
It seems I couldn't access the existing conversation log file. However, you can create a new file and save the conversation manually. Here are the steps:

Create a new file named conversation_log.txt in your repository.

Copy and paste the conversation into the file.

Commit and push the changes to your repository:

sh
git add conversation_log.txt
git commit -m "Add conversation log for reference"
git push origin main
This will save the conversation for future reference.